Document showcase submission guidance (#1104)
ratatui-org/website: src/content/docs/recipes/apps/submitting-to-the-showcase.md

Reviewer: This probably reads well and goes much into detail, but my concern is that this is a bit too long for this page.

We already have https://github.com/ratatui/ratatui-website/issues/986 which is more concise but not that visible. So maybe we could utilize that already instead of a separate page on the website? Or maybe move that issue to the website?

Author: It's a bit of a two fold thing here:
- discovery, somewhere we can point to and say read this that's linked on the website.
- detailed rationale for why we're making certain assertions about quality / size / etc.

This is in reaction to some push back about these standards. The push back was valid in the absence of justification of the ideas, but it was missing a bunch of rationale for why we make these suggestions.

The level of detail is intentional and solves the problem of repeating justifications in issues.

This is also about making it clear that the curation process is intentional and that there shouldn't be an expectation that every app is added to the showcase.

---
title: Submitting to the Showcase
sidebar:
  order: 11
  label: Submitting to the Showcase
---

The Ratatui showcase is curated. It is not meant to be a complete directory of every Ratatui app
or widget. The goal is to highlight entries that make someone stop, immediately understand what is

> interesting, and want to click through to learn more.

Reviewer 2: I think this does a good job of conveying what our current goal has been. I'm wondering if it is worth having a longer discussion (here or elsewhere) on whether this is what our goal should be.

For example, an alternate goal of a showcase could be to show unique ways of using ratatui instead. It would be a gif followed by a single line description of what is novel about that implementation.

Author: I'm fine with this being the place where we discuss this.

I agree the goals should be less one dimensional on this:
- give people ideas about making cool TUIs
- drive traffic to external user's widgets to grow the ecosystem
- show off various approaches on how to build things

I like your idea of adding some info that talks a bit more about how the widget works / why it's interesting. It's probably worth adding that to the submission template too.

Author: Updated in that direction. I broadened the `What the showcase is for` section to include giving people ideas for cool TUIs, driving traffic to third-party apps/widgets, and showing a range of interesting approaches to building with Ratatui. I also added an `interesting or novel` field to the showcase submission issue template so submissions can capture that explicitly.

That means showcase reviews are partly subjective. We still want the reasoning to be clear and

> consistent, so this page explains what we tend to optimize for and why.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That means, for better or for worse, showcase reviews are subjective. We still want the reasoning to be clear and
consistent, so this page explains what we tend to optimize for and why.
```

Author: There's probably a stronger / better way to write this, will tweak it a bit. Mostly this is saying 'hey this can be confusing because we're applying a bunch of what seem like arbitrary inconsistent rules, here's some of the background that helps make it clearer on why these matter, and some ways to help see the parts that are driving that" (or something like that).

Author: Updated. I reworded this opening section to be less defensive and also changed the later line to `there is some judgment involved in showcase reviews` to make the point without leaning on `partly subjective`.

Reviewer 2: I was intentionally leaning toward "apologetic", because most people would like their TUI to be showcased and we are curating based on some subjective metrics.

Author: Perhaps being explicit about the "curation" of items? That frames it less as apologetic and more rationalized.

Author: Updated. I made the intro more explicit about this being a curated set of entries, and that review feedback can extend beyond the immediate scope of the app or widget when we are judging how it fits on the page.

Current diff for that section:

```diff
-The Ratatui showcase is curated. It is not meant to be a complete directory of every Ratatui app or
-widget. The goal is to highlight entries that make someone stop, immediately understand what is
-interesting, and want to click through to learn more.
-
-That means there is some judgment involved in showcase reviews. We still want the reasoning to be
-clear and consistent, so this page explains what we tend to optimize for and why.
+The Ratatui showcase is curated. It is not meant to be a complete directory of every Ratatui app or
+widget. We are intentionally selecting a set of entries that work well together on the site and
+help show what Ratatui can do. The goal is to highlight entries that make someone stop, immediately
+understand what is interesting, and want to click through to learn more.
+
+That means there is some judgment involved in showcase reviews. Sometimes that means rejecting a
+submission, or suggesting changes that are not strictly about the app or widget library itself, but
+about how the entry works as part of the curated set. That can include things like framing,
+capture, pacing, contrast, layout, or how much of the UI is shown. We still want the reasoning to
+be clear and consistent, so this page explains what we tend to optimize for and why.
```

Reviewer 2: Looks great! Thanks for making those changes!

> This guidance is not coming out of nowhere. It consolidates previous discussions in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guidance consolidates ideas from previous discussions in
```

Author: yeah, this seems a bit defensive phrased like this.

Author: Updated. I changed this to `This guidance consolidates ideas from previous discussions in ...` and kept the direct links to the earlier threads, especially #986.

[#986](https://github.com/ratatui/ratatui-website/issues/986),
[#905](https://github.com/ratatui/ratatui-website/issues/905), and
[#1032](https://github.com/ratatui/ratatui-website/pull/1032), along with feedback repeated across
showcase submissions and review threads.

If your project is not a good fit for the showcase today, that does not mean it is not useful or
well made. It often just means it is a better fit for [Awesome Ratatui], the forum, or Discord

> until the presentation is stronger.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your project is not a good fit for the showcase today, that does not mean it is not useful or
well made. We encourage you to submit it to [Awesome Ratatui], the forum, or Discord.
```

( even a strong presentation may overlap with existing showcases? )

Author: for apps, duplication is a bit of a problem, but for widgets that hasn't yet been too much of a big deal. You're right that it's worth noting though as one possible reason for future rejection.

Author: Updated. I softened this section and made the fallback more explicit: contributors are encouraged to share on Awesome Ratatui / forum / Discord, and I added that overlap with existing showcase entries or limited space on a curated page can also be a reason.

## What the showcase is for

The showcase is optimized for:

- first impressions
- visual clarity at a glance
- entries that still read well when resized on the website, in a GitHub PR, or on a phone
- a small number of strong examples rather than a complete catalog

The mental model is simple:

> Someone should be able to see the image or GIF, understand what is compelling within a second or

> > two, and feel like they want to try the project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Someone should be able to see the image or GIF, understand what is compelling within a second or two, and feel like they want to try the project.*
```

The quote seems out of place a bit to me

Author: yeah - you're right, this is more about a goal than it is about a quote and should be presented as such.

Author: Updated. I dropped the blockquote and replaced it with a normal sentence: `A useful test is whether ...` so it reads more like a goal than a quote.

- Use GIFs only when motion helps explain the UI. A screenshot is often better.
- Avoid fast cuts, simultaneous changes everywhere, or long sequences of tiny states.
- Check the result on a phone-sized viewport before submitting.

For storage:

- Prefer GitHub attachments, `vhs publish`, your own hosting, or Git LFS.
- Avoid committing large binary screenshots directly into normal Git history when possible.

## Where to submit instead

Not every project belongs on the curated showcase, but there are still good places to share it:

- [Awesome Ratatui]
- [Ratatui Forum]
- [Ratatui Discord]

Those are great places for early projects, niche tools, libraries with less visual focus, or apps
that are useful but not yet showcase-ready.

## Before opening a PR or issue

Please review your submission against this checklist:

- Does the media make the core idea obvious immediately?
- Is the text still readable when resized?
- Does the UI have clear hierarchy and good contrast?
- Have you removed extra modes, whitespace, and low-value variation?
- Does the animation linger long enough to understand each important state?
- Would this stand out positively next to the current showcase entries?

> - Is the project already documented and shared in a place like Awesome Ratatui?

Reviewer 3: Should we put this in the PR template as well? So even if someone misses this they still have this checklist to go by

Author: Yeah - likely just a link to the various docs. Ideally I think it's worth having an issue rather than a PR that tracks submissions to start with. The actual mechanical act of making the PR is fairly small in comparison to the greater conversation around things.

Reviewer 3: IMO a megathread or something for issue submissions would be annoying, especially because of how GitHub hides messages. I’d suggest a forum channel or a threads-only channel on the discord where users can submit projects for the showcase

Author: There's an issue template in this PR ([.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/showcase-submission.yml](https://github.com/ratatui/ratatui-website/pull/1104/changes#diff-13249b3132e99764dee52cdf0e2b0836d95130aa0c0d162fa918fcb5841e499a)). What I meant was that someone wanting to submit a showcase item would use that. We don't need a new channel / extra management overhead for this really.

Author: Added this. The PR template now tells showcase submitters to open a showcase submission issue first, links directly to the issue form, and points at the new guidance docs. I also added the direct issue-form link in the guide and CONTRIBUTING so people can jump straight to it.

"simplify the layout". Those are not arbitrary rules. They are proxies for clarity.

## The bar for apps

The apps page is intentionally selective. In practice, new submissions should look better than a
large share of the apps already on the page, and the safest submissions usually land closer to the
top tier than the middle.

Strong app submissions usually have most of these qualities:

- The UI looks polished rather than prototype-like.
- The purpose of the app is obvious from a single screenshot or short GIF.
- The visual design feels intentional, with clear hierarchy and spacing.
- The app uses color and contrast well instead of relying on a flat or muddy palette.
- The recording focuses on the app, not the shell command used to launch it.
- The entry feels stable and production-ready rather than experimental or broken.

Common reasons for pushback:

- the UI looks too plain, cluttered, or unfinished
- there is too much whitespace or too many boxes competing for attention
- the media is visually busy and does not make the app's purpose obvious
- the color choices reduce readability or fail to create hierarchy

> - the app may be useful, but it is not a strong fit for the curated showcase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The UI looks too plain, cluttered, or unfinished
- There is too much whitespace or too many boxes competing for attention
- The media is visually busy and does not make the app's purpose obvious
- The color choices reduce readability or fail to create hierarchy
- The app may be useful, but it is not a strong fit for the curated showcase
```
